Dear students, there are many
things that are hereditary, for example, genetic diseases
.  But today, Yen was faced with
a question about whether infidelity involves movement
or not.  So, Lich Ly Nguyen's question is, "
I've been through many relationships,
but they all ended in heartbreak."
I'm 25 years old, and over a year ago I fell in
love with a 28-year-old man.
But she knows that young people these days often
go beyond the boundaries of love, and her daughter has been doing the same with him for
over a year now.   I
only found out after more than a year of dating that he already
had a wife and two children.  I feel very distressed.
After that, I decided to break up with him,
but he wasn't home.  And his wife
can't manage him either.  Every weekend he
makes excuses to go home to his child, but the child doesn't
see him either.  But he even slept on the streets all
night because of his child.  Because of my soft heart, I kept seeing
him again and again.  We couldn't get out.   It got to the point where
even his wife texted and called their
child a lot to confide in him.  At first, his wife
blamed their son a lot, but when the son
explained that he had no idea his father was married
and that he had already broken up with his wife after finding out, she stopped blaming him.
He even said he would leave his wife to marry his daughter.
The wife also understood that her husband was stubborn and
wouldn't listen to her, even when her parents said, "
Auntie, my grandparents, my uncles, my
aunts, and my father all had extramarital affairs after they got
married. Is infidelity hereditary
? What should I do to ensure
I can love and marry a decent person in the future? And my
father too."
Well, ladies and gentlemen, here Yen is
referring to an old saying passed down from our ancestors: when
choosing a wife, look at the family lineage; when choosing a husband,
look at the lineage. That means you have to look at the
family members. For
example, if a father has two wives, his son will also have many
wives.
If your mother has to have two or three wives,
you will also often experience the same.
Therefore, when a son gets married, he
usually looks at whether his mother-in-law is faithful or
not. When a daughter gets married, she looks at
whether her father-in-law, her husband, all of them have
many wives or not, and whether they are faithful or
not. That's how people usually look
. But what about from the perspective of Buddhism
?
From the perspective of Buddhism, it...  It's called
having fellow beings.
For example, if my mother had to be a second wife, then
I would also end up marrying an
unfaithful husband. I would know that clearly
. Or if my parents were
unfaithful, I would know that I would be at
risk of marrying someone like that because it
's a shared karma. Beings share the same
karma, so they are born in the same place.
Once I realize this,
I practice to transform my karma.
What does it mean to practice to transform karma?
It means empathizing with my parents. For
example, if my father had two wives and my mother was
upset, I would advise her to be patient.
Then I would advise my father to have feelings for
my mother. And I wouldn't condone
adultery. I would
n't condone it, and I would see it
as a source of suffering, so I would make vows to be
faithful, to be loyal, and
never to do such things. Actually, when I
say this, my family is the same.
Indeed, my grandfather was also a man with three wives, as the
elders used to say. My father had two wives.  He had a wife, but
because his first wife couldn't have children, he married
her mother. But her mother was very faithful
. And then
her younger brother did the same thing. When he married, his
first wife didn't have a son, while her family
had one son. So her brother
intended to marry again, to find someone
else to have a son to
continue the family line. It was really
karma pushing him to find a
second wife. But it stemmed from a
good heart – the desire to have
someone to carry on the family line and worship his
parents and ancestors. However, it
was also karma pushing him there
. So this is also a
karmic connection, my dear. That's why it's
not inherited,
but rather a shared karma. When you
realize this, you have to break
free from that shared karma. That means you
have to transform your karma.
Knowing that you also have
that karma, you have to transform it; you can't
not transform it.
This karma has overwhelmed you to the point where
it's obscuring everything. It's
preventing you from knowing that
someone has a wife. That means the karma is being
obscured. Therefore, in Buddhism, it's called
ignorance obscuring everything. That means you can't see or
know clearly. So now
you must change your karma.
Otherwise, in the next life you'll be born into
the same karma again. It will be very
painful. So you must be determined, you
must give it up completely. This is something
you've caused suffering to others. His
wife and children are truly suffering, and I'll make it clear
that I won't accept it.
Even if I sleep on the streets for 100 days, I
won't accept it. Because it's not just the
karma of this life, it extends to many
more lives. You're only 25 years old, you should be
building a family. If you continue like
this, at some point you'll have to
accept being a second or third wife, and who knows if
that person will stop?
They have that karma, you have
that karma, and they'll continue with a
third wife.  You'll continue to suffer
because this person already has a wife
and two children. It's not for
any particular reason, but simply because of a
very wrong reason: he
came to you out of love. That's karma,
this word "love" is what's causing you suffering, my dear.
It has no moral basis whatsoever. So
you should leave him and vow to be
faithful, and from now on, you
should live with compassion and
integrity. You've
already caused suffering to others. You've caused suffering to
his wife, and you're suffering too.
You're causing suffering to yourself and others, suffering to both of you
. It's suffering to all three of you. Suffering to
yourself, suffering to others. And there are so
many people. It's about the interaction
. You and other beings, you and the object of your
suffering—you're causing suffering to yourself and to
all the external objects of your existence
.
What cause, what karmic connection, is it that you have to be like this in this life?
It's because of your
past life, you were also in a
similar situation.  If you help someone, and they commit
adultery, or if you help
someone and they do something
illegal like adultery, then
you're now caught in this karmic cycle
. That's why
you feel suffering from these karmic consequences. Those who
don't feel suffering are those who have
n't yet had the opportunity to learn
about Buddhism. So they remain
immersed in this cycle of cause and effect, and in the
next life, they continue to
suffer greatly. But you have the
good fortune to know about Buddhism, so you
know how to stop this karma and practice to transform it
. Transform this karma so that you won't inherit it in future lives. That's
how it is now. Then you might be betrayed by your
husband, or in the next life,
you'll be betrayed by your wife or
husband, just like the wife
in your situation. That's how it
will be. It continues like
that until you have to pay the karmic consequences, and so on.
In the end, whenever you want to
escape this karma, you still have to practice
as I've said. It can't just
change karma naturally. It's
in a vicious cycle. Then,
the final stage of karmic retribution
will be resentment. For example, if I
feel betrayed like this, I
will not cause anyone suffering. I will
not invade other people's families
anymore. It still has to be a
painful ending, a vow to leave, only
then can you truly leave. So, you
still have good fortune, so leave
now. Don't condone
creating opportunities for others to
commit adultery. And don't condone or
associate with people who
commit adultery so that you won't find yourself
in such difficult situations later. That is,
seeing people do evil and turning a
blind eye. Therefore, you will have to
suffer the consequences now. In the ten
virtuous deeds, in Buddhist practice, there are ten virtuous deeds
. Not doing evil and advising others not to
do evil is a blessing.  Even if I
don't do it myself, if I see others doing it and
turn a blind eye, I'll still suffer the consequences
. That is, if you are indifferent to the
suffering of others, they will be
indifferent to you in return.
[music]